README.md, before:

# process_vacancies

This repository delivers python utility scripts 'initialize_database.py', 'parse_mail.py', 'update_vacancies.py' and generate_report.py. 
These scripts support the processing of job alert e-mails which can be received from a number of popular CV/Job engines. The scripts both 
implement and rely on a database called 'vacancies' defined on a local instance of 'MySQL'. They also require that the job alert e-mails 
received are stored in separate mail folders in a local instance of 'Outlook'. 'Chrome' must also be installed so that details of any 
vacancy can be displayed using a unique vacancy url.

These scripts together streamline the processes of reviewing job alert e-mails received and allow the user to track the progress of 
a particular application by changing the state of the associated 'vacancy' stored in the 'vacancies' database. The scripts will
reduce effort by ensuring that details of any vacancy advertised are only processed by the user once. The implementation of the 
'vacancies' database also allows the following reports and metrics to be produced using SQL queries.

- Vacancy history ( for vacancies applied for ).
- Report on proportion of vacancies dropped or pursued.
- Rate at which new vacancies are raised by each engine.
- Cumulative vacancy counts per engine.

The entirety of the functionality provided by these scripts relies on the following assumptions being correct:

- The job alert e-mails contain unique urls relating to each job vacancy advertised on that engine.
- That accessing these urls will result in the display of all the advertised vacancies details ( without
  being logged in ).
- If the job alert e-mails do not contain unique job urls, that these can be obtained by scraping the delivered web content
  when clicking on a link in those e-mails ( Reed ).
- The unique vacancy urls themselves contain a unique alpha/numeric identifier within the unique url.
- The CV/Job engines continue to deliver alert e-mails in the same format.

Deliverables
------------
To implement the functionality discussed above the following scripts and configuration files are delivered:

File | File Contents
------------- | -------------
initialize_database.py | Configures and checks the MySQL 'vacancies' database and associated tables.
parse_mail.py | Parses Outlook mail and adds details of new vacancies to MySQL
update_vacancies.py | Interacts with the user allowing them to change details ( including the state ) of individual vacancies. 
generate_report.py | Generates a report containg the history of all vacancies applied for
companies.data | An extract of Companies House data containing known recruitment agencies.
connect.data | Information required to connect to local MySQL instance
definition.sql | All SQL statements required to define the 'vacancies' database and associated tables.
engines.data | CV engine specific data including location of Outlook mail folders and format of unique vacancy urls.

As well as the above scripts and data files the following supporting documentation is also provided:

Document File | File Contents
------------- | -------------
process_vacancies_installation.txt | Installation instructions
process_vacancies_usage.txt | Script usage information
process_vacancies_testing.txt | Script testing information

Future Developments
-------------------
The following additional functionality is planned:

- Detection of duplicate vacancies ( per CV/Job engine )
- Detection/removal of vacancies raised by agencies.
- Production of per CV/Job engine metrics. 
- Automatic backup of the contents of the 'vacancies' database.

Commit message:

Addition of detect_duplicates.py
Script detect_duplicates added

README.md, after:

# process_vacancies

This repository delivers python utility scripts 'initialize_database.py', 'parse_mail.py', detect_duplictes.py, 'update_vacancies.py' and 
generate_report.py. These scripts support the processing of job alert e-mails which can be received from a number of popular CV/Job engines. 
The scripts both implement and rely on a database called 'vacancies' defined on a local instance of 'MySQL'. They also require that the job 
alert e-mails received are stored in separate mail folders in a local instance of 'Outlook'. 'Chrome' must also be installed so that details 
of any vacancy can be displayed using a unique vacancy url.

These scripts together streamline the processes of reviewing job alert e-mails received and allow the user to track the progress of 
a particular application by changing the state of the associated 'vacancy' stored in the 'vacancies' database. The scripts will
reduce effort by ensuring that details of any vacancy advertised are only processed by the user once. The implementation of the 
'vacancies' database also allows the following reports and metrics to be produced using SQL queries.

- Vacancy history ( for vacancies applied for ).
- Report on proportion of vacancies dropped or pursued.
- Rate at which new vacancies are raised by each engine.
- Cumulative vacancy counts per engine.

The entirety of the functionality provided by these scripts relies on the following assumptions being correct:

- The job alert e-mails contain unique urls relating to each job vacancy advertised on that engine.
- That accessing these urls will result in the display of all the advertised vacancies details ( without
  being logged in ).
- If the job alert e-mails do not contain unique job urls, that these can be obtained by scraping the delivered web content
  when clicking on a link in those e-mails ( Reed ).
- The unique vacancy urls themselves contain a unique alpha/numeric identifier within the unique url.
- The CV/Job engines continue to deliver alert e-mails in the same format.

Deliverables
------------
To implement the functionality discussed above the following scripts and configuration files are delivered:

File | File Contents
------------- | -------------
initialize_database.py | Configures and checks the MySQL 'vacancies' database and associated tables.
parse_mail.py | Parses Outlook mail and adds details of new vacancies to MySQL
detect_duplicates.py | Detects any duplicate vacancies in state 'New' ( per engine ) and removes all but the latest. 
update_vacancies.py | Interacts with the user allowing them to change details ( including the state ) of individual vacancies. 
generate_report.py | Generates a report containg the history of all vacancies applied for
companies.data | An extract of Companies House data containing known recruitment agencies.
connect.data | Information required to connect to local MySQL instance
definition.sql | All SQL statements required to define the 'vacancies' database and associated tables.
engines.data | CV engine specific data including location of Outlook mail folders and format of unique vacancy urls.

As well as the above scripts and data files the following supporting documentation is also provided:

Document File | File Contents
------------- | -------------
process_vacancies_installation.txt | Installation instructions
process_vacancies_usage.txt | Script usage information
process_vacancies_testing.txt | Script testing information

Future Developments
-------------------
The following additional functionality is planned:

- Detection/removal of vacancies raised by agencies.
- Production of per CV/Job engine metrics. 
- Automatic backup of the contents of the 'vacancies' database.
